.\" Manpage for jaySA.
.\" Create a git pull request at https://github.com/jshaker000/jaySA
.TH man 1 "30 APRIL 2019" "1.0" "jaySA User Manual"
.SH NAME
.B stimulize 
\- create 
.I irsim 
Wrapper of Openssl to generate RSA keys and do RSA encryption & signing, decryption & verification.
.br
Requires the Opennsl dev library to be installed

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jaySA
-h[elp]
.br
.B jaySA
--gen-key={key name}
.br
.B jaySA
-e[ncrypt] --pubk=<path to public key> [options]
.br
.B jaySA
-d[ecrypt] --privk=<path to private key> [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I jaySA
Can create a private key/public key pair using Openssl libraries. It also has options to use those keys to encrypt and decrypt
.br
There are 3 modes of operation: encrypt mode, decrypt mode, and gen-key mode.

.SH OPTIONS

One of the 3 modes, encrypt, decrypt, or gen-key, MUST be enabled. Some flags are incompatable with one another.

.br
.PP

.TP
.IR \-e " | " \-\-encrypt
.br
Enable encrypt mode. Requires the path of the public key to encrypt for to be passed in using pubkf
.br

.TP
.IR \-s " | " \-\-sign
.br
Sign the Encrypted Message. Requires encrypt mode. Requires the path of the private key to sign with to be passed in using privkf
.br

.TP
.IR \-d " | " \-\-decrypt
.br
Enable decrypt mode. Requires the path of the private key to decrypt with to be passed in using privkf
.br

.TP
.IR \-v " | " \-\-verify
.br
Verifies decrypted message's signature. Requires decrypt mode Requires the path of the public key to verify with to be passed in using pubkf
If the signature is invalid, then the message will not be printed.
.br

.TP
.IR \-b " | " \-\-base64
.br
Print the output of encryption as base64 or interpret the input of decryption as base64. Useful to send as armoured text.
If this flag is used on the encrypt side it MUST be used on the decrypt side aswell.
.br

.TP
.IR \-\-pubk "=<private key file>"
.br
Path to the public key (PEM FILE) to encrypt for / verify signature with
.br

.TP
.IR \-\-privk "=<public key file>"
.br
Path to the private key (PEM FILE) to encrypt for / verify signature with
.br

.TP
.IR \-i " | " \-\-in\-f " <input file>"
.br
Path to read data to encrypt / decrypt. If not passed, read data from stdin
.br

.TP
.IR \-o " | " \-\-out\-f " <output file>"
.br
Path to write data from encryption / decryption. If not passed, write data from stdout
.br

.TP
.IR \-g " | " \-\-gen\-key " <keyname>"
.br
Enables gen-key mode. Make a key pair <keyname>.pub.pem and <keyname>.priv.pem
Key is 2048 bits.
.br

.TP
.IR \-h " | " \-\-help
help

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Generate keys "apple.pub.pem" and "apple.priv.pem"
.br
\fI% jaySA --gen-key=apple
.br

.PP
Encrypt contents of "file" for "apple.pub.pem" and sign with "apple.priv.pem". Store in "out.enc"
.br
\fI% jaySA -es --pubk=apple.pub.pem --privk=apple.priv.pem  -i file -o out.enc

.PP 
Decrypt the contents of base64 encoded and encrypted "out.enc" with key "apple.priv.pem. Print
reseult to stdout
.br
\fI% jaySA -db --privk=apple.priv.pem  -i out.enc

.SH Todo's / Known Bugs
1) Simplify Flags
.br
2) Allow dettached signatures, ie signing / verifying without encrypting / decrypting
.br
3) Allow options to generate keys of different sizes.
.br
4) Make error messages clearer and less CAPSY
.SH AUTHOR
2019 Joseph Shaker.
.br
Please make all inquiries or bug reports on the github page.
.br
https://github.com/jshaker000/jaySA
.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.br
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.br
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.br
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
